Super Duper Mario (version ~ 0.45)

The idea was to make the ultimate Mario game. At now it's even good, but it has many bugs.


Controls:
You can define them in main menu, but there are some, that cannot be defined
In game:
Enter - toggle pause
Escape - exit to menu or editor


In main menu you can see these functions:
Start - see below
Controls - define controls
Editor - the main feature of this game, very powerful tool :)
Credits - note about resources
Quit - please, don't use it

If you choose start:
Start game - make your profile and play "official" worlds and bonus levels (only one world now)
Custom level - choose one of your own levels
Random level - randomize level

Normal game mode can hold profiles. From profile menu you can access worlds, bonus levels or choose start items. While selecting world, you can see stars, which shows your progress in this world. To get 5 stars you need to collect all green and blue coins and finnish all levels including secret.

While playing random level, your best score is saved. Press E to open in editor level you are playing.

Specjal game actions:
Use direction keys to enter pipes and UP key to enter door
Hold RUN key to grab objects (shells, switches etc.)
Crouch on slopes to slide and kill enemies (Doesn't work good on sharp slopes)
Hold up some time to look up


And for Mario newbies
Jump on enemy to kill it
Press RUN key to shoot if you have weapon
Collect 100 coins to get a life

Bonuses:
Green coin - unlocks bonus levels
Blue coin - unlocks items to start with
Super mushroom (red) - makes Mario big
Life-Up mushroom (green) - gives one life
Life-Up moon - gives three lives
Poison mushroom (blue with skull) - works like enemy
Star - timely invincible, run on enemies to get combos and make lives
Clock - adds 50 time
Glow Mushroom (yellow) - makes Mario glowing in darkness
Ninja mushroom (black) - transforms you too super fast ninja Mario with walljump ability
Mini mushroom - transform into 12-pixel Mario and take very small passages and pipes
-Blue mushroom still not working-
Weapons:
Fire flower - shoot enemies with fireballs (not working on Buzzy Beetles and Stone Spinys)
Frost wand - shoot to frost enemies, frozen enemies can be carried, thrown and destroyed on wall, floor etc.
Bomb - kill multiply enemies at once and destroy certain objects
Beet - break walls, hit PowerUp blocks, all in 3 bounces